After a Zoom call with a student and his mother, a California teacher who thought the call had ended was recorded saying her student has learned to lie and make excuses, calling the parents "pieces of sh*t" and saying "this is what Black people do," according to the mother's attorneys.
Now, the mother from the parent-teacher call, Katura Stokes, has sent a pre-suit claim -- a precursor to a lawsuit -- to the school district for monetary compensation for emotional distress, defamation, negligence and discrimination, according to Stokes' attorneys and a copy of the claim provided to CNN.
Stokes' sixth grader had struggled since his school transitioned to online learning last year at the start of the coronavirus pandemic, her attorneys say.
Stokes reached out to school officials at Desert Willow Fine Arts, Science and Technology Magnet Academy in Palmdale, California, -- 37 miles north of Los Angeles -- to get some help, according to a news release from Taylor & Ring, the law firm representing Stokes.
The teacher scheduled a Zoom call for January 20 with Stokes and her son, who is not named, and worked through recent assignments with him, according to the pre-trial claim. By the end of the call, the teacher assured him that he was caught up, the claim says.
"Given her son's struggles Ms. Stokes was very pleased to hear this," the claim says.
After the video conference, the teacher didn't end the Zoom call and made comments to someone else in the video, which caught Stokes' attention, the news release says. It prompted Stokes to record what she and her son heard for almost 30 minutes, it says, because she couldn't believe what she was hearing and thought no one would believe her otherwise.
"This is heinous," David Garcia, spokesperson for the Palmdale School District, told CNN. "This a hideous event and the Palmdale School District will not stomach any racial behavior, whether it's caught on tape or not."
The school district has not named the teacher, however the pre-suit notice of claim identifies her as Kimberly Newman, the son's sixth grade science teacher. Garcia said the district has not received the formal pre-suit claim as of Wednesday morning.
CNN has reached out to the teacher's attorney but has not heard back.